
The
 
Marriage  



Lawrence E. Adjah
MBA, M.Ed, M.Div.Copyright © 2023 Lawrence E. AdjahAll rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means—electronic, mechanical, digital, photocopy, recording, or any other—except for brief quotations in printed reviews, without the prior permission of the publisher.To request permissions, contact the publisher at publishing@wgodw.com

Hardcover: ISBN: 979-8-9876316-4-5
eBook: ISBN: 979-8-9876316-4-4

Library of Congress Control Number: 2023901122
Edited by Oryna Bondar & Aklima AkterCover art by Oryna BondarLayout by Oryna Bondar & Aklima AkterWatch God Work Publishers3839 McKinney Ave Suite 155-5170Dallas, Texas 75204watchgodwork.colawrenceadjah.comDEDICATION:To God (Thank You)To My Faithfully Married & Devoted Parents Lawrence & Cornelia Adjah (Thank You)and To Each and Every Couple Who (En)Trusted Me to Be a Steward of Their Marriage Journey(Thank You & May God Continue to Bless and Favor Your Marriage)CONTENTSIntroduction...........................................................................9Key..........................................................................................14Your Foundation...................................................................15Your Faith Life.....................................................................25Your Marriage Life..............................................................29Your Marriage Life with Children.....................................62Your Family/Home Life......................................................83Your Finances.......................................................................92Your Health and Wellness..................................................102Your Marriage and Boundaries.........................................112Your Penultimate Vow........................................................123INTRODUCTIONMarriage is a mystery that is both an expression and an experience of God’s eternal love for us from the beginning of time.In the beautiful redemptive love story of the Bible, we were once in perfect union with God as one, and then we were separated. However, because of His great love for us, God broke into history through Jesus Christ to reunite with us so we could be one again, forever. In marriage, the two becoming one points to God and all of His creation becoming one again with Him, in perfect harmony, for eternity.As such, marriage is not an achievement, it’s an assignment. It’s an assignment not simply to make each other happy, but to make each other holy. And what is holy? Holy is God using this person in marriage to set you apart and to help shape you into the person He’s called you to be and to help spur you onto the things He’s called you to do. As a result, your ability to experience the best of marriage will only happen when it is seen not merely as a relationship between one another, but as a relationship between you both with and under God.On your journey to marriage, you both enter as individuals, but you will leave as husband and wife, giving yourselves fully to each person in view of God Himself, through Jesus Christ, giving Himself fully unto all of us. Consequently, marriage is not relationship graduation. It is something much more significant. It is a vertical (with God) and horizontal (with your spouse) commitment to a divine mission which is eternally bigger than you and your spouse alone. It is a mission where you are commissioned by God to translate, transform, and be transformed by the redemptive love story of God throughout history. To give to your spouse and for you both collectively as one, to give to the world, in the way God has already given and continues to give to you just as our loving Father does, through Christ, empowered by the Holy Spirit.You didn’t, nor will you ever, be able to earn or deserve your spouse, because everything we (will) ever receive(d) in Christ is not by merit, but by the abundant grace and mercy of God. It will always be because God is good, not because we are good, that we get to receive such good things such as a spouse in marriage. So, if there is one thing you should hold near and dear, it’s this: Your spouse is a gift from God. Furthermore, anything created by God and given by God is sacred, and as such, its stewardship and care is quite specific.There is a common saying that the devil is in the details, but anyone who has even given a cursory read of the living word of God would see that it is ultimately God who is truly in the details. From the God-inspired and architected designs and directions for building the temple, to the unlimited hues of humanity in creation— anything God has created and cares for, He gives divinely detailed direction on how to establish, build, and maintain it in order for it to thrive for His glory. Such is the case with human beings, such is the case with marriage.Whether it be a manufactured product without directions, a professional sports team, or Fortune 500 company without clear roles, responsibilities, and operating procedures, no team or healthy human endeavor undertaken amongst or between human beings exists or thrives without intentional and practical clarity around not only its ultimate goal/purpose, but also its major functions and operations.Marriage is the same. Yet, it is easy to over-romanticize and over-spiritualize marriage to the point of gross negligence, forgetting that you are not simply vacationing with another perfectly imperfect human being, you are binding your entire life to them, for life. And just as scripture attests to us needing to be taught and trained in righteousness as single individuals (2 Tim 3:16-17), equally, we need to continually be taught and trained on how to be God-glorifying husbands and wives in marriage. Because the goal is not simply to get married, it is to stay married. Because what good would the cross be if Jesus did not stay? Likewise, what good would marriage be (to you, your neighbor, and/or to God) if you were not prepared to stay, too?While the overall goal of any book about marriage is to help prepare and strengthen you for marriage, the primary purpose of this particular book is to help you establish a foundational set of anchoring expectations for how you and your significant other will operate in your marriage, from the day-to-day expectations to the “I pray not but just in case” circumstances.In this book, you will find a mixture of decisions, as well as declarations, and commitment exercises for you and your significant other to make a foundational/mutual set of understandings before you take the next step. With that said, one of the most important outcomes of going through this exercise is the process of you and your spouse working through the topics and putting a stake in the ground about what unites you. It’s one thing to think things will simply “figure themselves out” when you get married. However, the statistics around divorce should humble even the healthiest of couples because the truth is the majority of people go into marriage believing they are prepared for it to last a lifetime. What this should tell you is that more often than not, the issue is not one of misaligned hopes, but rather, misaligned expectations.This book helps you strengthen your ability as a couple to align and set clear mutual commitments and expectations. It also puts you both in a position to lean on your integrity not only before God, but also before each other. May God be glorified in and through your marriage and may it show the world that eternal, unbreakable, and unwavering love is not only possible, it’s accessible, in and through Jesus Christ. We pray all of this and more in Jesus’ Name, Amen and Amen.SIGNIFIES A QUESTION/STATEMENT WHERE ONE MODEL MUST BE SELECTEDsignifies a statementwhere a declarationmust be madeSIGNIFIES A QUESTION/STATEMENT WHERE YOUR INPUT IS REQUIREDIYOUR FOUNDATION1.   Your Foundation: Marriage + Family[M]
.	We each already believe in and (have) receive(d) Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior and this reality will be the active foundation and guiding lens through which we see and operate in our marriage and family.	We are interested in living our new lives together according to the Christian faith, but we haven’t each made the individual decision to receive Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior (and be baptized) and we would like to do this in advance of our union.2.   Your Foundation: Marriage + Family Accountability: [D]
.	In view of the previous question, we are committed to living our lives together being accountable to God, His scripture and to the commitments we make through this “life covenant” process, unless mutually revisited and discussed at a later time..	Other: Before committing to this we need further discussion with spiritual counsel around how this would operate Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate3.   Your Foundation: Marriage & Your Children’s Faith Journey 		            	      (for if/when it becomes applicable): [D]
.	We believe we have a responsibility to raise our children according to the Christian faith, intentionally teaching them and raising them according to its expectations while leaving space for them to develop their own personal relationship with Jesus Christ and hopefully make a decision to give their life to Jesus ChristProverbs 22:6 ESV | Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not depart from it. 4.   Your Foundation: Marriage Mindset: Happiness[M].	We’re committed to the belief: While a marriage relationship can yield happiness, we believe happiness is neither a stable emotion nor a stable foundation to build a marriage upon, as such, we believe each spouse is ultimately responsible for their own happiness..	We’re committed to the belief: “Happy Wife, Happy Life” – the husband is ultimately responsible for making his wife happy and this will in turn lead to a successful marriage..	We’re committed to the belief: “Happy King, Happy Kingdom” – the wife is ultimately responsible for making her husband happy and this will in turn lead to a successful marriage..	We’re committed to the belief:  We believe in “Happy Spouse, Happy House” – each spouse is ultimately responsible for the other spouse’s happiness and this will in turn lead to a successful marriage.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate5.   Your Foundation: Marriage Preparation: Legal (Incapacitation)
[D] [I].	We’re committed to preparing in advance of our marriage to ensuring we are each well cared for in the undesired, unfortunate and rare case of incapacitating illness and or premature death, as such, we are each committed to establishing our spouse as Power of Attorney before our marriage date on or by this date  6.   Your Foundation: Marriage Preparation: Legal (Estate)[D] [I].	We’re committed to preparing in advance of our marriage to ensuring we are each well cared for in the undesired, unfortunate and rare case of incapacitating illness and or premature death, as such, we are each committed to establishing completing a notarized copy of our will before our marriage date on or by this date  Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDateCouple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate7.   Your Foundation: Marriage Mindset: Divorce:        [D].	We are committed to a lifelong marriage and do not see divorce as an exercisable option for any reasons outside of biblical (adultery & abandonment) or personal safety  grounds (physical abuse and professionally evaluated and validated, psychological harm), including but not limited to:o	Unhappinesso	“Falling Out of Love”o	“Growing Apart”o	“Irreconcilable Differences”Matthew 5:32 NIV | 31 “It has been said, ‘Anyone who divorces his wife must give her a certificate of divorce.’ 32 But I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, makes her the victim of adultery, and anyone who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.8.   Your Foundation: Marriage Mindset: Divorce & Law[M].	We are committed to a lifelong marriage with one another and do not see divorce as an exercisable option (outside of biblical/safety circumstances), still, in view of the law and the prevalent rates of marriage dissolution, we agree to explore and structure a mutually considerate prenuptial agreement for our marriage..	We are committed to a lifelong marriage with one another and do not see divorce as an exercisable option (outside of biblical/safety circumstances), and do not believe any legal agreements beyond our mutual commitments through this life covenant process are necessary for us to explore and structure at this time..	We are committed to a lifelong marriage with one another and do not see divorce as an exercisable option (outside of biblical/safety circumstances), still, we’d like to be more informed about what prenuptial agreements entail before deciding to consider or not consider it before our marriage.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate9.   Your Foundation: Marriage Mindset: Celebrating our Covenant 	 	   [M].	We commit to establishing and celebrating our holy union/covenant through our wedding and celebrating our marriage anniversary every year..	We commit to establishing and celebrating our holy union/covenant through our wedding, celebrating our marriage anniversary every year and also doing/celebrating a covenant renewal ceremony every 10 years..	We commit to establishing and celebrating our holy union/covenant through our wedding, celebrating our marriage anniversary every year and also doing/celebrating a covenant renewal ceremony every 5 years.IIYOUR FAITH LIFE10.   Your Faith Life: Worship Life: Marriage (Husband and Wife)[M].	We commit to daily prayer as a couple before we go to sleep..	We commit to weekly prayer as a couple (during designated check-in time)..	Other: Please detail 11.   Your Faith Life: Worship Life: Family (applicable w/or w/o children)[M].	We commit to family worship weekly, including a dedicated time for prayer and reflection as a family weekly, familial prayer over meals, and weekly corporate worship in a local faith community where we are members..	We commit to family worship weekly, including familial prayer over meals, and weekly corporate worship in a local faith community where we are members..	We commit to family worship weekly, including familial prayer over meals, and weekly corporate worship in a local/remote faith community where we are members..	Other: Please detail12.   Your Faith Life: Worship Life: Serving (applicable w/or w/o children)[M].	We commit to each volunteering/serving in our faith community in some capacity in every season..	We commit to each volunteering/serving in our faith community in some capacity at least one season/event per year..	We commit to each volunteering/serving flexibly inside (and outside of) our faith community based on our capacity, but at a minimum, we’ll always be serving our faith community through our giving in every season..	We commit to each volunteering/serving flexibly inside (and outside of) our faith community based on our capacity.IIIYOUR MARRIAGE LIFE13.   Your Marriage Life: Order of Priority before God  	 [D].	We understand and accept the order of relationship priority according to God’s highest design is first, our relationship with God: 1.	then, our relationship with our Spouse (see: “forsake all others”), 2.	then, our relationship with our children (if applicable), 3.	then everything and everyone else (including work, friends, family) Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate14.   Your Marriage Life: Family Name[M].	We commit to sharing the same last name in marriage and for the wife to take the husband’s last name..	We commit to each keeping our own last names in marriage..	We commit to the wife hyphenating her last name with her husband’s last name in marriage.15.   Your Marriage Life: Relationship Model (Work / Home Life)[M] [I].	We commit to a marriage model where we agree to both work full-time for as long as we both can consistently honor our commitments to God, our spouse and our children (If applicable)..	We commit to a marriage model where we agree the husband is the primary provider and works full-time and the wife stays at home as full-time housewife/homemaker..	We commit to a marriage model where we agree to both work full-time until we have children and then we will transition to a model where the wife stays at home for an extended period (beyond standard parental leave) until the children reach age ________ .	We commit to a marriage model where we agree to both work full-time until we have children and then we will transition to a model where the wife stays at home indefinitely as full-time housewife/homemaker.16.   Your Marriage Life: Relationship Model (Work /Family Life Boundaries - Travel)[M] [I].	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to never be away from one another for more than a 7-day period, regardless of the commitment/project scope. If necessary, we will set a “Come to me or I’ll come to you” plan in order to honor this expectation..	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to never be away from one another for more than a 10-day period, regardless of the commitment/project scope. If necessary, we will set a “Come to me or I’ll come to you” plan in order to honor this expectation..	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to never be away from one another for more than a 3-day period, regardless of the commitment/project scope. If necessary, we will set a “Come to me or I’ll come to you” plan in order to honor this expectation..	Other: Please detail17.   Your Marriage Life: Relationship Model (Work /Family Life Boundaries – Work Down Time)[M].	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to have a guarded period of at least 2 hours daily where it’s our time to connect directly (not including children), and no work is to be done. Our preliminary guarded time is __________(am/pm).	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to have a guarded period of at least 1.5 hours daily where it’s our time to connect directly (not including children), and no work is to be done. Our preliminary guarded time is __________(am/pm).	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to have a guarded period of at least 1 hour daily where it’s our time to connect directly (not including children), and no work is to be done. Our preliminary guarded time is __________(am/pm) .	Other: Please detail 18.  Your Marriage Life: Relationship Model (Work /Family Life Boundaries – Late Night Work – at Office/Home)[M].	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to have no more than 2 late night workdays either at the office or at home (i.e., not going to bed with your spouse), per week. .	We commit to a marriage / work model where we agree to have no more than 1 late night workdays either at the office or at home (i.e., not going to bed with your spouse), per week. .	Given the nature of our work, we do not believe this commitment would align well for us..	Other: Please detail 19.   Your Marriage Life: Dedicated Time (Fellowship)[M] [I].	We commit to a weekly date night on ______ (guarded day, no children if applicable).	We commit to a bi-weekly date night on ______ (guarded day, no children if applicable)20.   Your Marriage Life: Sex Perspective: Declaration[D].	We share the belief that sex in marriage is a duty before God and not a conditional expression of love and honor. As such, we believe we not only have the opportunity to have sex in marriage, but also, we each have the equal responsibility to have sex with each other regularly in marriage, unless only for a short pause due to a mutual commitment to prayer or fasting or for an unexpected health challenge.1 Corinthians 7:1-6 NIV | Now for the matters you wrote about: “It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.” 2 But since sexual immorality is occurring, each man should have sexual relations with his own wife, and each woman with her own husband. 3 The husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife, and likewise the wife to her husband. 4 The wife does not have authority over her own body but yields it to her husband. In the same way, the husband does not have authority over his own body but yields it to his wife. 5 Do not deprive each other except perhaps by mutual consent and for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer. Then come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.(Continue to Next Page)Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate21.   Your Marriage Life: Sex - Frequency[M].	We commit to having sex at least 3 times per week .	We commit to having sex daily.	We commit to having sex at least 2 times per week22.   Your Marriage Life: Sex - Initiation[M].	We commit to alternating who initiates sex by week..	We commit to alternating who initiates sex by day/instance..	We commit to “letting it flow” naturally without a set alternation schedule, with that said, we each willingly acknowledge it is not the responsibility of one spouse to initiate a duty before God.23.   Your Marriage Life: Sex - Communication[M].	We commit to having a conversation within the first month about what we individually enjoy in sex with our spouse and what aspect of the experience, if anything, you would each enjoy more of..	We commit to having a conversation within the first 3 months about what we individually enjoy in sex with our spouse and what aspect of the experience, if anything, you would each enjoy more of..	We commit to having a conversation within the first 6 months about what we individually enjoy in sex with our spouse and what aspect of the experience, if anything, you would each enjoy more of..	Other: Before committing to this we need further discussion in our session around how this would operate. 24.   Your Marriage Life: Sex - Contraception[M].	We do not plan to use contraception of any form during marriage..	We plan to use contraception, but we do not plan to use any which require oral consumption (health concerns/considerations) or invasive surgery (vasectomy, fallopian “tubes tied”)..	We plan to use all forms of contraception available to us which includes oral consumption and/or invasive surgery as an option (vasectomy, fallopian “tubes tied”).25.   Your Marriage Life: Sex – Boundaries (Declarations)[D].	We commit to never discussing our sex lives with anyone (friends, colleagues, and family members) unless we mutually agree to seek outside counsel on that aspect of our relationship.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate26.   Your Marriage Life: Living – Room Boundaries (Electronics)[M].	We’re committed to not having any mobile electronics in our bedroom, specifically, TV’s, laptops and/or phones at night’s end to ensure our bedroom is a place of intimacy..	We do not believe we need unique boundaries around electronics in our bedroom.27.    Your Marriage Life: Marriage: Dedicated Time (Reflection)[D] [I].	We commit to having a weekly check-in on _______  at [] (guarded time) 

(Recommended Agenda: Specific Appreciation, Area to Grow/Challenge to Address, Planning, Prayer)Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate28.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution[D] [I].	We commit to having a weekly check-in on _______  at [] (guarded time) 

(Recommended Agenda: Specific Appreciation, Area to Grow/Challenge to Address, Planning, Prayer)29.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution        [D].	We commit to not fighting or having serious arguments in front of others, rather, we’d wait for time alone and away from company, either in our check-in time or immediately after to discuss things away from them.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDateCouple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate30.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution:  Counseling / Care Model[M].	We commit to a minimum of monthly counseling sessions for the first year of our marriage, with a minimum of bi-monthly in year 2 and a minimum of quarterly in years 3+ as check-ins (with additional sessions as needed)..	We commit to a min of bi-weekly counseling sessions for the first year of our marriage, with a min of monthly in year 2 and a min of quarterly in years 3+ as check-ins (with additional sessions as needed)..	Other: Please detail31.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution: [D].	We commit to never discussing conflict/issues in our marriage with anyone, before (1) addressing the issue with our spouse and (2) mutually agreeing to seek approved counsel on the issue.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate32.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution: 
[D].	We commit to not going more than 24 hours without speaking with one another under any circumstances.33.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution: [D].	We commit to not discussing serious issues/ conflicts/debates via text message. Rather, we’ll always discuss them in person or in a live conversation on a phone given the importance of conveying the proper tone and honoring wise boundaries for the marriage.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDateCouple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate34.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution: 
[D].	We commit to not going to sleep while still angry with one another [not to be confused with resolving the issue, but committing to find common ground to discuss further, prayer and then coming together as one]

26 “In your anger do not sin”: Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry, 27 and do not give the devil a foothold

Ephesians 4:26-47 NIV | 26 “In your anger do not sin”: do not let the sun go down while you are still angry, 27 and do not give the devil a foothold.35.  Your Marriage Life:  Communication & Conflict Resolution: 
[D].	We commit to always sleeping together in the same bed, no matter the issue.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDateCouple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate36.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution: 
[D].	We commit to never using sex as a weapon by withholding it due to conflict [Unless mutually acknowledged and agreed due to medical considerations, prayer and/or fasting]37.   Your Marriage Life: Communication & Conflict Resolution:
[D].	We commit to never using silence as a weapon by withholding presence or communication due to conflict [Unless mutually acknowledged and agreed for a set amount of time for prayer and reflection]Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDateCouple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate38.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: [D].	We commit to never discussing conflict/issues in your marriage with anyone (especially family members) before (1) addressing the issue with your spouse and (2) mutually agreeing to seek approved counsel on the issue.39.   Your Marriage Life: Decision Making:  [D].	We commit to honoring the husband as the head and the final decision-making authority on all decisions, with trust in his submission to God and prayerful consideration of his wife’s and family’s interests.

We commit to not conflating this role and responsibility with function, as the one in authority does not always equate to the one executing the function/responsibility day to day. While the ultimate decision-making authority for all things rests with the Husband, the capacity to execute or provide unique wisdom can be with the other spouse in a specific area of discussion.
.	We commit to a model of Discussion, Prayer, Discussion, Prayer, Decision and if necessary, another round of Discussion & Prayer and seeking Godly counsel if applicable. (Time between discussion and for prayer is by discernment and God’s leading)
Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDateCouple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate40.   Your Marriage Life: Marriage: Living – Rooting[M].	We’re committed to living in a city where at least one of our families resides, always..	We’re committed to living in a city where at least one of our families resides for up to the next 10 years (with consideration for younger children + childcare, parental care + presence in older age, existing community)..	We’re committed to being flexible about our home location, open to living wherever opportunity may lead us, even if it’s not in a city with existing family..	We’re committed to living in a city where at least one of our families resides for up to the next 5 years (with consideration for younger children + childcare, parental care + presence in older age, existing community).41.   Your Marriage Life: Marriage: Living – City Type[M].	We’re committed to living in a downtown area of a major city long-term..	We’re committed to living in the suburbs long-term..	We’re committed to living in a remote area, whether domestically or abroad, which is not necessarily connected or proximate to a major city..	We’re committed to being flexible about our living area and do not have a particular preference to a city type.42.   Your Marriage Life: Marriage: Living – Domestic / International[M].	We’re committed to living domestically long-term..	We’re committed to living internationally long-term and plan to eventually move shortly after our marriage..	We’re committed to being flexible about our living location and do not have a particular preference around living domestically or internationally.43.   Your Marriage Life: Marriage: Living – Home Type[M].	We’re committed to living in an apartment long-term as our primary residence..	We’re committed to living in a standalone single-family house long-term as our primary residence..	We’re committed to living in a standalone single-family townhouse long-term as our primary residence..	We’re committed to living in a multi-family house long-term.44.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: To Have Them (Biologically)[M].	We commit to having children (according to God’s will)..	We do not commit to having children. IVYOUR MARRIAGE LIFE WITH CHILDREN45.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: How To Have Them (Method of Delivery Preference)[M]We recognize the most important outcome we desire is for a healthy delivery for both the mother and the child, with that said, to the extent we can plan, we’d prefer:.	A Water Delivery (if medically prudent and possible).	Vaginal Delivery (with potential for C-Section if medically necessary)46.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: Where To Have Them (Location Preference)[M]We recognize the most important outcome we desire is for a healthy delivery for both the mother and the child, with that said, to the extent we can plan, we’d prefer:.	A Home Birth (if medically prudent and possible).	A Hospital Birth .	A Birth Center (if medically prudent and possible)47.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: When To Have Them (Time After Marriage)[M].	We commit to attempting to have them as soon as possible..	We commit to attempting to have them after year one..	We commit to attempting to have them after year two..	We commit to attempting to have them after this specific milestone.48.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: Number of Children (Biologically)[M].	We commit to having as many children as God will allow us to have..	We commit to having one child (according to God’s will)..	We commit to having two children (according to God’s will)..	We commit to having three children (according to God’s will)..	Not Applicable49.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: Number of Children (Adopted)[M].	We commit to adopting at least one child during our marriage..	We admire and believe in adoption but do not plan to adopt during our marriage..	We are committed to having children biologically (according to God’s will), but would consider adoption if we discern it’s not His will for us to have children biologically.50.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: Naming of Children (Model)[M] [I].	We’ve agreed to pray about each child’s names once pregnant and decide on names together..	We’ve agreed to each get to choose one child’s name outright and alternate..	We’ve agreed for our children’s names to all be biblical names..	We’ve agreed for our children’s names to all start with the letter _____.	Not Applicable 51.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Children Decision: Naming of Children (Jr’s)[M].	We agree that it’s an option to name one of our children after a parent..	We agree that’s not an option name one of our children after a parent..	Not Applicable52.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Pregnancy Announcement:[M].	We commit to keeping the news of our pregnancy private until the end of the 1st trimester. .	We commit to keeping the news of our pregnancy private until the end of the 2st trimester..	We do not have a specific guideline around if and when we will share news of a pregnancy..	Not Applicable53.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Marriage: Children: Discipline(Model to Commit To)[M].	We commit to raising and disciplining our children with Godly wisdom and discernment, with an orientation to disciplining our children according to their age and level of understanding leveraging:	Gentle verbal instruction/warning, firm verbal instruction/warning and in the repeated case of disobedience, disrespect or danger, we are comfortable with physical discipline and other forms of punishments in love..	We commit to raising and disciplining our children with Godly wisdom and discernment, with an orientation to disciplining our children according to their age and level of understanding leveraging:	Gentle verbal instruction/warning, firm verbal instruction warning and in the repeated case of disobedience, disrespect or danger, we are comfortable with other forms of punishment in love, which do not include physical discipline.	Not Applicable54.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Communication & Discipline: 		         [D].	We commit to being a united front before our children, never keeping any secrets from the other parent and never undermining a decision or perspective given by your spouse, whether in front of the children as a couple, or separate from your spouse with the childrenCouple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate55.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Communication & Conflict Resolution:[M].	We commit to not fighting or having serious arguments in front of the children, rather, we’d wait for time alone and away from the children, either in our check-in time or immediately after to discuss things away from them..	We commit to fighting respectfully, even if it’s a serious disagreement, in front of the children, because we believe it’s healthy and constructive to model positive conflict resolution and to set realistic expectations for them in a marriage. 56.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Communication: Sex[M].	We commit to discussing sex with our children together at no later than 5 years old, specifically, discussing appropriate/inappropriate touch and expectations of communication if it happens..	We commit to discussing sex with our children one on one (each parent has their own talk) at no later than 5 years old specifically, discussing appropriate/inappropriate touch and expectations of communication if it happens and talking through anatomy and what sex is..	We commit to discussing sex with our children together at no later than 5 years old; however, we’ll discuss appropriate/inappropriate touch and expectations of communication if it happens, between by age 7 and we’ll talk through anatomy, what sex is and its purpose, by puberty (10-13)..	We commit to discussing sex with our children one on one (each parent has their own talk) at no later than 5 years old; however, we’ll discuss appropriate/inappropriate touch and expectations of communication if it happens, between by age 7 and we’ll talk through anatomy, what sex is and its purpose, by puberty (10-13)..	Other: Please detail57.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Social Media (New Child)[M].	We’re committed to guarding the image and identity of our children and are committed to not posting any photos of them on social media indefinitely.	We’re committed to guarding the image and identity of our children and are committed to limiting their exposure on social media by restricting others from sharing photos of our children on social media (direct/indirectly) and posting family/individual photos we’ve mutually agreed to share.	We’re committed to approaching the issue of social media exposure of our children’s image and identity with discretion; however, we do not believe any specific restrictions on sharing / posting from friends and family are necessary.	We’re committed to guarding the image and identity of our children and are committed to limiting their exposure on social media by limiting others from sharing photos of our children on social media (direct/indirectly) without our permission and posting family/individual photos we’ve mutually agreed to share.58.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Social Media (Exposure)[M].	We’re committed to guarding the psychological development and physical safety of our children while allowing them to be socially connected and technologically adept, with that said, we do not believe it is appropriate for our children to be on any form of social media until they become high school age.	We’re committed to guarding the psychological development and physical safety of our children while allowing them to be socially connected and technologically adept, with that said, we do not believe it is appropriate for our children to be on any form of social media until they become middle school age.	We’re committed to guarding the psychological development and physical safety of our children while allowing them to be socially connected and technologically adept, with that said, we will allow closely monitored social media use from middle school age on.	Other: Please detail59.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Mobile Phone (Access)[M].	We’re committed to guarding the psychological development and physical safety of our children while allowing them to be socially connected and technologically adept, with that said, we do not believe it is appropriate for our children to have a mobile phone until they become high school age.	We’re committed to guarding the psychological development and physical safety of our children while allowing them to be socially connected and technologically adept, with that said, we do not believe it is appropriate for our children to have a mobile phone until they become middle school age.	We’re committed to guarding the psychological development and physical safety of our children while allowing them to be socially connected and technologically adept, with that said, we will allow closely monitored mobile phone use from as early as we feel comfortable they can properly use it without losing or damaging it..	Other: Please detail60.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Social Media (New Child Documentation)[M].	We’re committed to guarding the image and identity of our children and are committed to not posting any photos of them on social media indefinitely..	We’re committed to approaching the issue of social media exposure of our children’s image and identity with care, still, we do not plan to create an account on their behalf or have any unique restrictions to friends/family or ourselves of sharing photos with them in them..	We’re committed to creating and managing an account on our children’s behalf, with photos we will share from their birth until we believe they are of age to take over their account.62.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Communication: Race / Racial Dynamics[M].	We recognize the reality of race as well as its role and history still we don’t believe we should have an explicit discussion about race / racial dynamics in the world and in our country with our children .	We commit to discussing race with our children together at no later than 10 years old, specifically, discussing the history of race / racial dynamics, where it stems from a biblical perspective (Genesis 3), and expectations you have of them around their approach to engaging the issue in this world.	We commit to discussing race with our children one on one (each parent has their own talk) at no later than 10 years old, specifically, discussing the history of race / racial dynamics, where it stems from a biblical perspective (Genesis 3), and expectations you have of them around their approach to engaging the issue in this world.	Other: Please detail61.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Communication: Sex / Gender & Sexuality[M] [I].	We believe God created man and woman, as the two genders, with a sexual ethic of marriage and relationship between a man and a woman, with that said, we also acknowledge many aspects of our human experience are often not in line with God’s highest design for humanity and as a result, we want to prepare our children to not only understand God’s intentions for them in terms of gender and sexual ethics, but also, we want to raise children who can also effectively engage with those different from them in this regard with grace and love, without compromising their understanding of the truth.	As such, we commit to discussing this topic with our 			children by age _________.	While we recognize and acknowledge God’s highest design for humanity around gender and sexuality, we do not feel equipped to have this conversation with our children because we need to develop and deepen our own understanding of this topic through our own study and consultation with spiritual counsel. 	As such, we commit to doing intentional study on our own and in the meantime, allowing our faith community and counsel to provide the primary guidance to our children..	Other: Please detail63.   Your Marriage Life with Children: Education (Institution)[M].	We are committed to educating our children in the public school system. .	We are committed to educating our children in private school. .	We are committed to homeschooling our children..	We are committed to a flexible learning experience where we’re committed to the best local educational environment which could vary between all school types based on location, outcomes, pricing and more.VYOUR FAMILY/HOME LIFE64.   Your Family Life: Traditions: Family Dinner [Excludes Date Night][M] [I].	We are committed to eating dinner as a family every single day, outside of unique and rare circumstances .	We are committed to eating dinner as a family at least once weekly, on____________.	We are committed to eating dinner as a family at least once monthly, on the ____________ | ____________ | of each month.	Other: Please detail65.   Your Family Life: Traditions: Family Vacations [M].	We are committed to budgeting, planning and going on at least one family vacation per year.	We are committed to budgeting, planning and going on at least two family vacations per year.	Other: Please detail66.   Your Family Life: Traditions: Family Photos[M].	We are committed to taking a full immediate family photo at least once per year.	We are committed to taking a full immediate family photo at least once every two years.	Other: Please detail67.   Your Family Life: House Cleaning & Maintenance:[D] [I].	In view of gifting and capacity, we commit to ________ being the primary individual in our family who manages and executes the periodic functions of our house cleaning and maintenance, which includes but is not limited to cleaning and maintenance of living space, laundry and dry cleaning.

We commit to not conflating this role and responsibility with function as always being the one executing the function/responsibility day to day. What this means is _____ is primarily and ultimately responsible and accountable for seeing it get done, within the financial and capacity constraints of the family.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate68.   Your Family Life: Cleaning Model with Home (Inside):[M].	We commit to a model of weekly house cleaning taking place on Saturdays or Sundays which includes but is not limited to, cleaning of general living areas, kitchen, bathrooms and bedrooms and laundry (assumption of general tidiness, cleaning after self during the week)..	We commit to a model of bi-weekly house cleaning taking place on Saturdays or Sundays which includes but is not limited to, cleaning of general living areas, kitchen, bathrooms and bedrooms and laundry (assumption of general tidiness, cleaning after self during the week)..	We commit to a model of bi-weekly house cleaning by an outside cleaning vendor which includes but is not limited to, cleaning of general living areas, kitchen, bathrooms and bedrooms and laundry (assumption of general tidiness, cleaning after self during the week)..	Other: Please detail69.  Your Family Life: Cleaning Model with Food:[M].	We commit to a model where the person who prepares the food is not the person who cleans up the kitchen, sink and table after the food is prepared and consumed. It is the responsibility of the non-cooking spouse/children to clean..	We commit to a model where the person who prepares the food is responsible for cleaning up after the meal is done..	We commit to a model where the person who prepares the food is responsible for cleaning up as they cook and after the meal is done..	Other: Please detail70.   Your Family Life: Cleaning Model with Home (Outside) (if applicable):[M].	We commit to a model of weekly outside housework taking place on Saturdays or Sundays which includes but is not limited to, cleaning of vehicles, lawn care, cleaning of trash & recycling bins, deck, sidewalk and general gardening .	We commit to a model of monthly outside housework taking place on Saturdays or Sundays which includes but is not limited to, cleaning of vehicles, lawn care, cleaning of trash & recycling bins, deck, sidewalk and general gardening .	We commit to a model of outside housework by a hired outside vendor which includes but is not limited to, cleaning of vehicles, lawn care, cleaning of trash & recycling bins, deck, sidewalk and general gardening .	Other: Please detail71.   Your Family Life: Traditions: Family Outings [Excludes Date Night][M].	We are committed to doing at least one outing as a family at least once weekly.	We are committed to doing at least one outing as a family at least bi-weekly.	We are committed to doing at least one outing as a family at least monthly.	Other: Please detailVIYOUR FINANCES72.   Your Finances: The Overall Model[D].	We commit to having a “One Flesh, One Financial” model where any and every amount of income generated by either spouse is considered the family’s resources and is budgeted and apportioned against our prayerfully planned annual budget.	Other: Before committing to this we need further discussion in our session around how this would operate Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate73.   Your Finances: Financial Planning Model[M] [I].	We commit to developing an annual budget, with monthly discussions on the_____ of each month, around our status (actuals) against our goals .	We commit to working with a financial advisor, who will help us develop an annual budget, with monthly discussion around our status (actuals) against our goals .	We commit to developing an annual budget, with bi-monthly discussions on the_____ of every other month, around our status (actuals) against our goals .	Other: Please detail74.   Your Finances: Financial Management Model[D] [I]In view of gifting and capacity, we commit to ________ being the primary individual in our family who manages the periodic functions of our finances, which includes but is not limited to, developing the budget, financial reconciliations, bill-payment and investment related asset management and allocation.	Other: We commit to having a licensed financial professional handle and manage all of our financial matters. We commit to at least monthly updates (indefinitely) with the professional of our choosing.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate75.   Your Finances: Financial Generosity (in Faith)[M] [I].	We commit to giving at least 10% of our net income to our faith community monthly.	We commit to giving at least 2% of our net income to our faith community monthly, with the goal of increasing giving by 1% each year.	We commit to giving at least 10% of our net income to our faith community and at least 2% to causes and missions we believe in..	Other: Please detail76.   Your Finances: Financial Management:   		          Payments Execution (Public Social)[M] [I].	We commit to ________ paying for things when we go out together in public, unless we explicitly discuss another plan in advance.	We’re committed to a more flexible setup where there is no set expectation for one spouse paying (because it’s ultimately coming from the same source) and we talk about it in advance each time.	Other: Please detail77.   Your Finances: Financial Management: with Children (Allowance)[M]
.	We commit to giving our children a weekly allowance as an opportunity to teach financial stewardship.	While we believe in teaching our children proper financial stewardship, we do not believe in giving them an allowance. We will provide resources as needed and available..	We commit to giving our children a monthly allowance as an opportunity to teach stewardship.	Other: Please detail78.   Your Finances: Financial Management: with Children (Investments / Savings)[M].	We commit to opening a 529 plan/account for our children after they are born and depositing a budget sensitive amount monthly.	We commit to opening a savings account for our children after they are born and depositing a budget sensitive amount monthly.	We commit to opening a brokerage account for our children after they are born and depositing a budget sensitive amount monthly to purchase stocks.	We commit to opening both a 529 plan/account and a brokerage account for our children after they are born and depositing a budget sensitive amount monthly.	Other: Please detail79.   Your Family Life: Food Preparation & Planning:        Overall Model: Responsibility[M] [I].	We commit to having _____ be responsible for the overall food planning and preparation for the family, with considerations made for date night, family outings and circumstances when one is unable to do. (80/20).	We commit to having _____ be responsible for the overall food planning and preparation for the family, with a split of _____ being responsible for meals during the week (M-Fri) and ______ being responsible for meals during the weekend. .	We commit to having a chef / nanny be responsible for the overall food planning and preparation for the family..	Other: Please detail80.   Your Finances: Financial Stewardship & Nutrition Health Goals[M].	We commit to enjoying home-cooked meals at least 4 of the 7 days per week .	We commit to enjoying home-cooked meals at least 2 of the 7 days per week .	We commit to enjoying healthy meals through all channels (without specific constraints beyond it being in line with financial budget) .	Other: Please detailVIIYOUR HEALTH AND WELLNESS81.   Your Health and Wellness: 
         Approach to Medicine, Illness and Pain Management[M].	We commit to preparing and enjoying healthy meals as a family, as defined by completely restricting fried food, fast food, candy as well as any other non-whole, highly processed junk foods from our family’s consumption at least 5 of the 7 days per week. .	We commit to preparing and enjoying healthy meals as a family, as defined by completely restricting fried food, fast food, candy as well as any other non-whole, highly processed junk foods from our family’s consumption at least 4 of the 7 days per week. .	Other: Please detail82.   Your Health and Wellness: Specific Consumption Goals [Meal Types][M].	We commit to a healthy balanced diet with no special restriction on any meats (seafood, chicken, beef, pork), dairy, fruits and vegetables, and whole grains or nuts.	We commit to a healthy balanced diet including all meats except pork (seafood, chicken, beef), dairy, fruits and vegetables, and whole grains or nuts.	We commit to a healthy balanced vegetarian diet .	We commit to a healthy balanced vegan diet .	We commit to a healthy balanced pescatarian diet .	We commit to a healthy balanced carnivore diet .	We commit to a healthy balanced diet which is flexible to individual needs (e.g., husband can pursue carnivore and wife can pursue vegetarian, while children can be unrestricted, for example)83.  Your Health and Wellness: New Babies: Nutrition: Breastfeeding 		         [M].	We commit to breastfeeding primarily and only using formula in rare circumstances. .	We commit to breastfeeding whenever possible, still, we do not have any reservations about relying on high quality formula. 84.   Your Health and Wellness: New Babies: Nutrition:  		         		          Breastfeeding Length[M].	We’re committed to breastfeeding along with introducing appropriate complementary foods for up to 2 years for our children..	We’re committed to breastfeeding along with introducing appropriate complementary foods whenever possible still, we do not plan to do it beyond 1 year for our children. .	We do not have a strong perspective about breastfeeding and will take the guidance of our medical professional when the time comes.85.   Your Health and Wellness:  
          Approach to Medicine, Illness and Pain Management[M].	We are committed to a more natural, homeopathic approach to the health and wellness of both us and our children, avoiding the use of OTC drugs and medicines outside of extreme and rare circumstances..	We are committed to our health and wellness and have no reservations with leveraging the medication and OTC drugs available to us to manage pain and illness..	We are committed to our health and wellness and each approach this issue very differently, thus we are committed to a model which is flexible to each individual’s preferences.86.   Your Health and Wellness: 
          Approach to Medicine, Illness and Pain Management II[D] [I].	We are committed to each doing a full physical and check-up annually, including all pertinent age/risk factor appropriate tests (i.e., prostate, breast, etc.). As such, to establish this shared practice, we plan to go on or by _______________ before our wedding day..	We are committed to each doing a full physical and check-up annually, including all pertinent age/risk factor appropriate tests (i.e., prostate, breast, etc.). We already have completed our individual check-ups for the year and look forward to continuing this annual practice in marriage.87.   Your Health and Wellness: 
         Approach to Medicine, Illness and Pain Management: 
         Natural Birth or Epidural[M].	We are committed to having a natural birth. .	We are committed to having an epidural or anything medically available to relieve labor pain..	We’re not well educated enough on the subject to make an informed decision on what’s best so we plan to research and revisit this when the time comes.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate88.   Your Health & Wellness: Psychological / Physical 
         (Individual Therapy)[M].	We are each committed to seeing a (faith-aligned) therapist individually, at least 6 times per year during our marriage (as our resources allow)..	We are each committed to seeing a (faith-aligned) therapist individually, at least 4 times per year during our marriage (as our resources allow)..	We are each committed to seeing a (faith-aligned) therapist individually, at least 12 times per year during our marriage (as our resources allow)..	While we believe in seeking counsel for our marriage, we’re not ready to commit to long-term individual therapy currently.89.   Your Health & Wellness: Psychological / Physical 
         (Physical Wellness – Exercise)[M].	We are each committed to a goal of sustainable health, through regular exercise, which for us is at least 3x per week individually.	We are each committed to a goal of sustainable health, through regular exercise, which for us is at least 2x per week individually.	We are each committed to a goal of sustainable health, through regular exercise, which for us is at least 4x per week individually.	Other: please detailVIIIYOUR MARRIAGE AND BOUNDARIES90.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: [D].	We commit to never actively keeping / maintaining any secrets from one another.91.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: Openness / Technology[M].	While we fully trust God and our spouse, we believe in oneness and there being no hidden spaces, thus, we believe in “transparent access” which means we each have the passcodes for all our technology (hardware) and digital media accounts..	While we fully trust God and our spouse, and believe in being one, we do not believe in “transparent access” and do not believe it is necessary to commit to having the passcodes for all of our technology (hardware) and digital media accounts. Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate92.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: Holidays Model[M].	We commit to splitting and rotating visiting family for major holidays between our families (e.g., Thanksgiving, Christmas, Easter) each year..	We commit to doing major holidays at home, with a visit at least one family for one holiday each year (rotating)..	Other: Please detail93.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: In-Laws/Loves in Advanced Age[M].	We’re committed to caring for our spouses’ parents in advanced age through financial contribution..	We’re committed to caring for our spouses’ parents in advanced age through welcoming them to move in with us so we can be primary caregivers..	We’re committed to caring for our spouses’ parents in advanced age yet in the interest of our marriage and honoring their best care, we do not believe a longer-term stay is the best option for us..	Other: Please detail94.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: In-Laws/Loves After Having First Child[M].	We’re committed to having at least one parent stay with us for a period of a month, after the birth of our first child..	We’re committed to setting frequent and intentional early interactions with our new child and our parents, for visits and help with care, still, we prefer not to have anyone stay for an extended length of time in the first month. .	We’re committed to having at least one parent stay with us for a period of two weeks, after the birth of our first child..	Other: Please detail95.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: Interactions with the Opposite Sex (Offline)[M].	We commit to maintaining healthy boundaries with the opposite sex as a married couple, however, we do not believe any unique restrictions on interactions are required for opposite sex interactions that are not present with our same-sex interactions..	We commit to maintaining healthy boundaries with the opposite sex as a married couple, with that said, while we believe in shared interactions with an individual, we do not believe in nurturing/actively maintaining friendships with the opposite sex one on one (outside of work colleagues / family) as measured by:.	daily / multiple times per week: one on one conversations/text/social media messages.	one on one meetups without our spouse .	inappropriate conversation you wouldn’t be comfortable with your spouse / or anyone else seein
1 Thessalonians 5:22: Abstain from all appearance of evil.96.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: Social Media: Date Night[M].	We’re committed to putting our phones away during date nights, with only use for contact with babysitter (if applicable), caregiver or photographs between us.	We commit to exercising discretion, and we do not believe a firm line is necessary.	Other: Please detail97.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: Social Media: Interactions with the Opposite Sex[M]While we fully trust God and our spouse, we believe in honoring our covenant in and through all our actions, as such:.	We commit to ensuring there is no direct communications via message or comments with any member of the opposite sex on any platform, unless it’s someone we both unequivocally know and trust .	We commit to exercising discretion and discernment, and we do not believe a firm line is necessary.	Other: Please detail98.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: Social Media: Connection/Interaction with Past Significant Others/Romantic Interests[M]While we fully trust God and our spouse, we believe in honoring our covenant in and through all our actions, as such:.	We commit to ensuring there is no direct connection (via follow / being followed, friendship or connection) and/or direct communications via message or comments with any past significant other(s) / past romantic interests on any platform.	We commit to ensuring all past significant other(s) / past romantic interests are blocked on every platform .	Not Applicable.	Other: Please detail99.   Your Marriage & Boundaries: Digital Media & Physical Devices: Private and Public Content (Images & Other Media) with Past Significant Others/Romantic Interests[M] [I]While we fully trust God and our spouse, we believe in honoring our covenant in and through all our actions, as such:.	We commit to deleting all private and public media with any past significant other(s) / past romantic interests from all private devices and public accounts (active or not) by ______________.	Not Applicable.	Other: Please detailVIVYOUR PENULTIMATE VOW100.   Your Penultimate Vow[D]We each promise and commit, before God and each other, to honor the agreements made and expectations set throughout this book. While we recognize we will each be imperfect and inevitably fall short, we each willingly agree by our own volition to be accountable to every single commitment, before God, our spouse and spiritual counsel in our adherence to everything we agreed to in this book. We each make space for adjustments, if and only if, we mutually agree, if not, we submit to our original commitment with trust in God and without any form or threat of retaliation. Most importantly, it is our mutual intention for us each to work daily to be children of God who reflect His unwaivering promises, character and Word through the preceding (and following) commitments made with our words and carried out through our lives. As such, in view of the vows we will make on our day of holy matrimony, we make this vow, to honor these commitments in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, Amen and Amen.Couple’s Activity:
Statement of Agreement & Recitation Out Loud..	We’ve read the declaration out loud together..	Sign Your NamesHusband to beWife to beDate